import_fasta
============
Usage
-----

::

	Usage: perl pipelines/est/import/import_fasta.pl --uploaded-fasta <FILE> [--output-dir <DIR_PATH>]
	    [--seq-mapping-file <FILE>] [--sequence-meta-file <FILE>] [--output-sequence-file <FILE>]
	    [--sequence-ids-file <FILE>]
	
	Description:
	    Import user-specified FASTA sequences into a form usable by the SSN creation pipeline
	
	Options:
	    --output-dir              path to directory to store output in; if not specified, defaults to current working directory
	    --uploaded-fasta          user-specified FASTA file containing sequences to use for all-by-all
	    --seq-mapping-file        file for mapping UniProt and anonymous IDs in FASTA file (internal); defaults into --output-dir
	    --sequence-meta-file      file containing sequence metadata (post filtering)
	    --output-sequence-file    path to output file to save sequences in; defaults into --output-dir
	    --sequence-ids-file       path to output file to save sequences IDs in; defaults into --output-dir
	

Reference
---------


NAME
----

**import_fasta.pl** - import user-specified FASTA sequences into a form
usable by the EST pipeline



SYNOPSIS
--------

::

   import_fasta.pl --uploaded-fasta <FILE> [--seq-mapping-file <FILE> --sequence-meta-file <FILE>
       --output-sequence-file <FILE> --sequence-ids-file <FILE>]



DESCRIPTION
-----------

This script reformats a user-specified FASTA sequence file into a form
that is usable by the EST pipeline. Any sequence IDs from the FASTA
header that were not identified are assigned a unique ID in the unknown
ID format (see **EFI::Sequence::Type**).

An example of a user-specified input file:

::

   >|tr|B0SS77|Leptospira biflexa
   ABCDEFG

   >B0SS75 Leptospira biflexa serovar Patoc
   ABCDEFG

   >OtherID
   >Life-42
   ABCDEFG

   >ABZ97962.1
   ABCDEFG

Running this script with that file would result the following output
file:

::

   >B0SS77
   ABCDEFG

   >B0SS75
   ABCDEFG

   >ZZZZZ0
   ABCDEFG

   >B0SS72
   ABCDEFG



Arguments
~~~~~~~~~

``--uploaded-fasta-file`` (required)
   The path to the user-specified FASTA file.

``--seq-mapping-file`` (required, default value)
   This file is a two column format file with a header line, where the
   first column is the UniProt or unknown ID and the second column is
   the line number where the corresponding sequence header is located in
   the ``--user-uploaded-file`` file.

   This file is generated by ``get_sequence_ids.pl`` in a prior step
   which outputs a file that maps line numbers in the original
   user-specified FASTA file to anonymous sequence identifiers. Defaults
   to ``seq_mapping.tab`` in the current directory.

``--sequence-meta-file`` (required, default value)
   Path to the file containing sequence metadata (e.g. mapping sequence
   ID to metadata such as the original ID from the fasta). If sequences
   are in the input FASTA (and sequence mapping file) but are not in
   this file then they are not output. This occurs if the sequence was
   filtered out in a prior step (e.g. to remove fragments). Defaults to
   ``sequence_metadata.tab`` in the current directory.

``--output-sequence-file`` (required, default value)
   The path to an output file containing the sequences from the input
   FASTA file. The sequences are reformatted and renumbered as
   necessary. If sequences were removed by filtering in a prior step
   then they are not included in the output. Defaults to
   ``all_sequences.tab`` in the current directory.

``--sequence-ids-file`` (required, default value)
   The path to an output file that contains any IDs that were provided
   to this script via the metadata file but were not in the original
   FASTA file. This occurs when a family is added to a FASTA import.
   This file is used later in the EST pipeline to retrieve non-FASTA
   sequences. Defaults to ``sequence_ids.tab`` in the current directory.
