Testing
=======
This repository includes several basic validation tests to confirm that the
completed EFI pipelines execute without errors. If the pipeline is an EST workflow
(e.g. BLAST, family, accession, FASTA), then the SSN generation pipeline is
also run using a parameter file generated on "auto" mode (see
``bin/create_generatessn_nextflow_params.py``).

Test Datasets
-------------

Before beginning testing, test datasets must be downloaded from an EFI server.
A ready-to-use example for downloading a SQLite-based dataset is provided in
``tests/download_example.sh``. All testing and download steps should be run from
the main EST repository directory.

If the example script is executed without modification, a directory structure
should be created in ``EST_repo_dir/tests/test_data/sqlite`` with a number of
files, the most important of which are: ::

    blastdb
    efi.config
    efi_db.sqlite

If the user wishes to use a location for the test dataset that is outside of
the EST repository (for example, if a user storage quota limits the amount of
data), then the download example script should be modified to place the
test datasets in an alternate directory (i.e. modifying the ``$test_data_dir``
environment variable in ``tests/download_example.sh``). The environment must
then be configured with this alternate path in a later step.

Test Environment Setup
----------------------

Once the test dataset has been established, the test environment must be
set up by sourcing the ``tests/test_env.sh`` script. If no parameters are
provided to the command then the default directory structure is used (e.g.
``EST_repo_dir/tests/test_data/sqlite``). This command looks like: ::

    source tests/test_env.sh

To use an alternate dataset location, an additional parameter must be used,
``--data-dir``, to specify the alternate dataset. For example, if the test
dataset is downloaded to ``/scratch/est_test/test_data/``, then the
environment setup command must be replaced with: ::

    source tests/test_env.sh --data-dir /scratch/est_test/test_data

Note, this path should exactly match the path used in the 
``tests/download_example.sh`` script.

Additional parameters can be used to control the test environment:

``--db-type``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By adding the ``--db-type`` option with the ``sqlite`` or ``mysql`` value
a user can control the database interface used by the scripts: ::

    source tests/test_env.sh --db-type sqlite

If left undefined, the tests will be run assuming a ``sqlite`` database file.

``--results-dir``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``--results-dir`` option allows the user to change where output files
from tests, as well as intermediate files generated by Nextflow, are
located: ::

    source tests/test_env.sh --results-dir /scratch/est_test/test_results

``--db-name``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The user can specify the default database to use, overriding the database
provided in the test datasets. For a SQLite interface, this could look
like: ::

    source tests/test_env.sh --db-type sqlite --db-name /scratch/est_test/full_sqlite/full_db.sqlite

If the user requires a MySQL database connection, then the following
example can be used: ::

    source tests/test_env.sh --db-type mysql --db-name efi_202408

``--fasta-db``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A FASTA database (formatted with BLAST v2.2.26) is used for sequence
retrieval and is included in the test datasets. An alternative database
can be specified in the case that the user wishes to test on a larger
dataset: ::

    source tests/test_env.sh --fasta-db /path/to/fasta_db_dir/fasta_db_name

Note that the ``fasta_db_name`` shown in this example is the BLAST
database name which is not directly pointing to an individual file.

``--config-file``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A database configuration file is used throughout the EFI tools and is
typically to commands using the ``--efi-config`` argument. This can
be included in the test environment by adding the ``--config-file``
option: ::

    source tests/test_env.sh --efi-config /path/to/efi.config

This is useful when using a MySQL database to provide database
connection values through this config file.

Test Execution
--------------

Once the environment has been set up, the tests can be run: ::

    bash tests/runtests.sh docker.config

A Singularity container interface can also be used: ::

    bash tests/runtests.sh singularity.config

Nextflow Configurations
-----------------------

Nextflow configuration files must be passed as positional arguments to the 
``bash tests/runtests.sh`` command and module testing scripts (see below).
These configurations exist for various environments such as running the 
pipelines on PBS-Torque- or Slurm-based clusters as well as using Docker or 
Singularity containers. Configuration files can be found in ``conf/<workflow>`` 
where ``workflow`` corresponds to one of the pipelines in ``pipelines/``.

Individual Tests
----------------

The commands above will run all of the ``*.sh`` files in the ``tests/modules/``
directory. The scripts have a numeric prefix so that they are run in succession
each time for reproducibility. After running the ``source tests/test_env.sh`` 
script, individual tests can be run with the following command: ::

    bash tests/modules/<script> $EFI_TEST_RESULTS_DIR <nextflow_config>

where ``script`` is one of the ``##_module_name.sh`` files in the
``tests/modules/`` directory. An example might be: ::

    bash tests/modules/01_est_sequence_blast.sh $EFI_TEST_RESULTS_DIR singularity.config

